FSCK_MINIXFS(8)             System Manager's Manual            FSCK_MINIXFS(8)

NAME
     fsck_minixfs – check and repair a MINIX file system

SYNOPSIS
     fsck_minixfs [-lwy] [-e 0 | 1] [-M size:heads:side] [-W bits] image

DESCRIPTION
     fsck_minixfs checks the MINIX file system in image, of any version and
     byte order, or of Minix-vmd; see minixfs(5).  It checks:

     •   the super block: a maximum file size that makes sense, an image that
         holds the whole file system, where the size of a device can be told,
         and the errors that Linux records in the state field of V1 and V2;

     •   directory entries: inode numbers in range, entries that name a free
         inode or one of no valid type, names that are empty or hold ‘/’, ‘.’
         and ‘..’ first and naming the directory and its parent, and
         directories that more than one directory lists;

     •   inodes: a size that the zones reach, directories a whole number of
         entries long, zone numbers inside the data area, zones that two files
         share, device files with zone numbers besides the device number, and
         symbolic links that are empty, longer than Linux writes or cut short
         by a NUL byte;

     •   link counts against the entries that name each inode, unreferenced
         inodes (inodes in use that no directory names), both bit maps, and
         bit 0 of each map, which is never used but must be set.

     Neither the depth of the directory tree nor loops of directories stop the
     check.  Each problem is printed on a line of its own, then a summary of
     the inodes and zones in use and the problems found.  A file system that
     is not marked clean is noted, but is not a problem in itself: in V1 and
     V2, MINIX leaves zero the word in which Linux keeps the mark.

     Without -y, the image is only read.

     The options are:

     -y      Repair each problem where it can be: bad entries are removed, ‘.’
             and ‘..’ are pointed where they belong or put back, moving an
             entry that holds their place and giving the directory a zone if
             it has none; zone numbers outside the data area and the second
             use of a zone are cleared; sizes are cut to what the zones reach,
             to whole entries and to the text of a symbolic link.  Link counts
             and bit maps are corrected, unreferenced inodes are freed, and a
             maximum file size in the super block that is 0 or past 2147483647
             becomes the one MINIX works out.  A root that is not a directory
             and an image shorter than the file system are left.  Each problem
             is followed by ‘(repaired)’ or ‘(not repaired)’.  Recheck after
             repair.  If no problems remain, mark the image clean; otherwise
             mark it as having errors.  The image is locked with fcntl(2)
             while it is written, and one that another program holds is
             refused.

     -l      With -y, link unreferenced inodes into lost+found as ‘#’ and
             their inode number, trees below directories and all, rather than
             freeing them; lost+found is made if it is not there.  MINIX and
             Linux have no lost+found, and their fsck frees such inodes, which
             is why this is not the default.

     -e 0 | 1
             Check that the bits of each map past the last inode or zone are 0
             or 1, and with -y set them so.  Without this, neither is a
             problem; see minixfs(5).

     -w      Note, as warnings that are not problems, what the fsck of MINIX 3
             warns about or reports: map blocks beyond what the maps need, a
             first data zone later than the inode table allows, a maximum file
             size other than the one MINIX works out, zones of more than 256
             blocks, and, without -e, bits set past the end of the maps; and
             files larger than the maximum file size, past which Linux maps no
             block.  The maximum file size and the bits are not noted for
             names of 30 characters, which MINIX does not read.

     -M size:heads:side
             Check an image containing the file system on one disk side.  See
             minixfs(1) for the track layout.  With -y, repair only the
             selected side.

     -W bits
             Take the bit maps of a big-endian file system as words of bits
             bits, 8, 16, 32 or 64, instead of 16 for V1 and V2 with names of
             14 and 8 for the rest; see minixfs(5).

EXIT STATUS
     fsck_minixfs exits with 0 if the file system is consistent, after the
     repairs with -y; 1 if problems remain; 2 for a usage error; and 3 if the
     image cannot be checked at all.

EXAMPLES
           $ fsck_minixfs root.img
           $ fsck_minixfs -y -l usr.img

SEE ALSO
     minixfs(1), minixfs(5), newfs_minixfs(8), tunefs_minixfs(8)

AUTHORS
     Shoichi Fukusaka

minixfs                       September 26, 2026                       minixfs
