RESTORE_MINIXFS(8)          System Manager's Manual         RESTORE_MINIXFS(8)

NAME
     restore_minixfs – restore a dump into a MINIX file system

SYNOPSIS
     restore_minixfs -t [-c] -f file
     restore_minixfs -r [-cNv] [-M size:heads:side] [-o uid:gid] [-s symtable]
                     -f file image

DESCRIPTION
     restore_minixfs reads BSD dumps in either byte order and restores them
     into a MINIX file system of any version; see minixfs(5).  Supported dumps
     include:
     •   dump_minixfs(8);
     •   NetBSD and FreeBSD UFS1 and UFS2 dumps;
     •   Linux ext2, ext3 and ext4 dumps;
     •   4.2BSD and 4.3BSD dumps, including older file system formats.

     The options are:

     -t      List the names of the files in the dump, each after its inode
             number in the dump, as restore(8) does.  The dates, the level and
             the label of the dump come first.

     -r      Restore the dump into the root directory of image: a full dump
             into an empty file system, then each dump of a higher level in
             the order they were made.  Each directory of the dump comes to
             hold what the dump says it holds: names that are gone are removed
             and new ones made, a file whose last name went away is freed, and
             files and directories take their modes, owners and times from the
             dump.

     -c      Read the directories as those of V7, of 16-byte entries, as
             restore(8) does with -c.  Those of a dump of a file system older
             than 4.2BSD are always read so.

     -f file
             The dump; ‘-’ is standard input.

     -M size:heads:side
             Write to an image that holds the file system in the tracks of one
             side of a disk only, as minixfs(1) reads it.

     -N      Check everything, and write nothing.

     -o uid:gid
             Make every file owned by uid and gid, numbers both.

     -s symtable
             Record the dump-to-image inode mapping and the restored dump's
             date in symtable for subsequent incremental restores.  The
             default is restoresymtable.

     -v      Name each directory and file as it is restored.

     Before writing, -r checks name lengths and the number of available
     inodes.  If either check fails, nothing is written.  When reading a file,
     it also checks owners, device numbers and file sizes in advance; any
     error prevents writing.  When reading standard input, it skips files that
     exceed these limits, including their names, and continues restoring the
     rest.  Device numbers use major × 256 + minor and must be below 65536.

     An incremental dump's previous-dump date must match the date in symtable.
     After a recoverable failure, the table allows the same dump to be
     retried.  Keep it between restores.

     The destination must be marked clean and must not use Minix-vmd flex
     directories.  It is locked with fcntl(2) while it is written, and one
     that another program holds is refused.  The clean flag is cleared during
     writing and restored after the data reaches disk.  Failures due to space
     or file system limits, or a truncated or damaged dump, leave the written
     data consistent.  After correcting the cause, retry the same dump.

     An I/O error or forced termination may leave an inconsistent image with
     the clean flag cleared.  Run fsck_minixfs -y before further writes.  If
     the image or restore table cannot be recovered, restart from the full
     dump.

     Extended attributes, file flags and sockets have no place in a MINIX file
     system, and are left out with a warning.  So are the names of files that
     the dump does not hold, as in a dump of a part of a file system.

EXIT STATUS
     restore_minixfs exits with 0 on success, 1 if anything failed, and 2 for
     a usage error.

EXAMPLES
     Restore a full dump and one of level 1 made after it:

           # newfs_minixfs -V 3 -s 65536 usr.img
           # restore_minixfs -r -f /backup/usr.0 usr.img
           # restore_minixfs -r -f /backup/usr.1 usr.img
           # rm restoresymtable

     Put a dump of an ext2 file system of Linux into a V2 file system, owned
     by root:

           # restore_minixfs -r -o 0:0 -f home.dump home.img

SEE ALSO
     minixfs(1), minixfs(5), dump(8), dump_minixfs(8), fsck_minixfs(8),
     newfs_minixfs(8), restore(8)

AUTHORS
     Shoichi Fukusaka

BUGS
     Compressed dumps of Linux and dumps on more than one volume are not read.

minixfs                       September 26, 2026                       minixfs
